Okay, so here's a raw monologue where I just brain dump everything I have to offer in terms of context and wishes and goals and so on with the ultimate goal of informing our pitch for the hackathon we signed up for. So basic context. This repo and this project is... okay so it started with a class project. Basically the SickKids Hospital in Toronto has a pre-existing machine learning model, machine learning system called the MLMD, machine learning medical directive. And what this thing does is it basically proactively orders diagnostic tests up to five of them that it supports based on triage time data. So that's like free text notes and basic vital signs that are collected by a triage nurse at the starting point of the emergency department process. And the point of this proactive ordering is to speed up patient throughput and improve patient outcomes. So basically in theory people typically queue up twice. They queue up... they queue up after getting seen by the triage nurse and they just wait in the waiting room. Then eventually they get called to a room and they're seen by a physician. The physician makes some initial assessment, orders some tests, then they wait again while the tests are ordered and then actually administered and then the results come back. And then after waiting for all of that the patient gets seen again by the doctor this time in the presence of test results. And now you can actually start to move to treatment and follow-up action and so on. So the point was to skip the second queue by ordering tests in advance and then maybe the doctor can already make a full-fledged assessment the first time they see them. Okay so now what does that have to do with our project? Our project was basically about improving the performance of this model by addressing some issues with noise. In particular there's so-called asymmetric noise where there's a bunch of unobserved positives masquerading as negatives, true negatives in the data set. And so basically at other hospitals maybe patients got tests done and then they show up at sick kids because it's a tertiary care facility. And now they receive care sort of on the basis of the results of those prior unobserved tests but the model is blind to those because it's not represented in sick kids's electronic health record, the EHR, because the hospitals are just poorly integrated data-wise. Okay so we have a couple of techniques to address that. We're doing some label imputation using a knowledge graph and then we're also trying to implement robust noise resistant training. So that's the context for the class project. Now we've also, Alice and I, my course partner, have signed up for a hackathon called the AIX Biohackathon and we're basically continuing work on this project as part of the hackathon and now we have to produce a pitch that we can use to win the hackathon. So we're interested in winning and we're sort of repackaging the course project for that. So the noise resistant training doesn't seem like it's super relevant so we're focusing on the knowledge graph component and basically to get context about that you can freely look through the presentation slides we prepared for class. So these are in the repo. You can also look at the proposal which also repeats some of the context I provided so far and basically there's details about the knowledge graph and so on. So in terms of the pitch, I think the pitch goes roughly something like this. It's like, "Healthcare around the world is resource constrained. There are all sorts of bottlenecks concerning equipment, personnel, expertise, and the one that we're interested in the most, or one major bottleneck, has always been just the number of doctors available to care for the supply of doctors for the near infinite demand of medical care." Right? So there's just like tons of demand for health care and a limited supply of doctors to apply expertise to solve those medical issues, those health issues, right? So you know what are the traditional ways of solving that? You train more doctors but that costs money. You have to pay those doctors. You need to manage the cost for a public health insurance system. So yeah, health care is expensive. So it's like both humans and money are the bottlenecks ultimately and doctors being the main driver of that bottleneck. So what could you do? Well, technology and AI in particular present a pretty compelling and promising solution to this. So there's been this long-running movement around knowledge graphs related to the medical field in general, actually over decades now where you could encode clinical knowledge and knowledge graphs and then theoretically sort of embed clinical decision-making into a computer and then it could do stuff that doctors would do. Now clinical knowledge graphs kind of have slowly plotted along over the decades and haven't made much progress but with the augmentation of large language models actually it becomes a much more practical problem to encode all these clinical things. So rather than just being purely rule-based you can have a partially rule-based and then partially statistical system and that's exactly what we implemented basically a knowledge graph plus LLM based system. We call it diagnostics, D-I-A-G-N-O-T-I-X. And so we use language models in order to both create the knowledge graph and then in turn use the knowledge graph to ground responses by this LLM and also a rag pipeline to ground responses by the LLM. And so what problem does it solve? Well it solves all sorts of problems, it helps. So in the very first scenario it's a kind of assistant to doctors. So doctors are tasked with complicated or diagnostic scenarios ranging from simple to complicated where they have to come up with differentials, so hypothetical diagnoses, and they use all sorts of tools to help them with that. There are pretty existing resources like clinical guidelines and their own training. And then there's also sort of some early stage tools like open evidence in this space which are basically rag-grounded LLMs. And so the idea is yeah we can diagnostics can be an assistant for these doctors and help them make decisions in every kind of diagnostic context. It can reason both from like symptoms to diagnoses and from diagnoses to treatments and also vice versa. Yeah and the knowledge graph is nice not merely because it encodes relationships between these based on sources on the internet. So open data sets of clinical guidelines and mostly clinical guidelines. We also enrich the knowledge graph with signals from the literature and from other sources. So you should look at the so-called enrichment pipeline documentation which we have in the presentation directory for information about that. And what else? We have some sort of validated use cases already. So I think from the perspective of the pitch we're just gonna talk about this. SickKids is only relevant as a validated so-called customer or as a prospective customer. We already have an existing lead because of some associate because of a pre-existing relationship to the university that we both go to school at. So we won't mention the fact that the project originated in SickKids and that was given to us. It's more like we're working on a project and we have knowledge about a validated use case because of some other work we've done there. Yeah let's say that. So we have some parallel project going on at SickKids and this project was partially inspired by the gap observed there in SickKids. And so we're gonna ground the sort of concrete use case, one among many for this product, as being about emergency department care. And so what's the main problem with emergency department care? Well a large part of it is actually resource management. So you know often what's the what's the one of the main things you think about when you think about the emergency department? Well as an external user you have long waits and care is inefficient and that's actually reflective of one of the main problems from the administrative perspective as well. Emergency departments have a resource allocation problem where it's hard to predict when how much load comes when in the emergency department. So they understaff or overstaff on a regular basis there and that leaves lots of resource wastage and also depreciated patient outcomes because they can't match supply to demand effectively. Now what's one way to solve? There are many ways to solve that but one way is just to create ways to sort of boost capacity when you need it and one way to do that would be to frontload some more of the decision making. So for example things like the MLMD are great for that and our tool diagnostics actually could substitute for something like the MLMD as an assistant to triage nurses. So triage nurses are already authorized in some hospitals to perform or to authorize some basic tests. So they have sufficient training and they're seen as having sufficient training expertise by a hospital admin to do those to make those basic recommendations now. So what if we now equip them with the super smart AI assistant which can help them answer questions and augment their expertise with clinical guideline grounded commentary then maybe admins would trust them with more test ordering and you could improve flow through the emergency department both reducing strain on the healthcare system and also helping patients get the care they need and get them to sort of disposition faster. Okay so that's that. So we need to weave a narrative out of this so there's the problem that we need to we need to highlight in our pitch deck. We also need to talk about our value proposition at a high level then we need to bear briefly talk about the technology and then we have to do a market analysis is something that we haven't really done yet. So we have to show we understand the commercial or deployment context and then we have to talk about team next steps, limitations, solutions, vision, blah blah blah. What else is a knowledge graph based tool like this useful for? Well it turns out it's also nice for label imputation which is what we're doing for sick kids but I feel like that's a little too in-depth and too niche. In theory you could say you could sell to hospitals who are increasingly looking at taking advantage or maybe like yeah like like cleaning and connecting their proprietary data to machine learning based solutions to improve health their healthcare and improve the efficiency of their systems. That being said that's very early stages for that. Maybe you could also sell this tool to sort of AI consultants who will probably increasingly become a their own ecosystem hired by hospitals in order to produce tailored and sort of bespoke ML solutions for hospitals. One problem we've noted is that there's a lot of heterogeneity in healthcare patterns and data across hospitals and sites so this kind of bespoke solution thing is probably going to be predominant in healthcare. So you could sell to those but I think those are a little harder, those are a little less obvious or a little harder from a commercial perspective to substantiate because it's a bit further away that use case. It's like not fully developed yet that commercial ecosystem so it's probably easier to sell to hospitals and maybe like healthcare systems that operate hospitals right. So we could focus say say say say our initial focus would be on like emergency departments and then also I don't know so from a sales perspective it's probably also nice to go to like family doctors and who else does a lot of test ordering. I mean test ordering is not the only thing you basically want to find healthcare contexts with people who have significant expertise but could use a boost to bring them up to doctor level or just to improve the confidence of doctors. It's like when maybe like yeah I think there's too many legal issues with selling direct to consumers so you can't do that. I don't know I'm also open to brainstorming on other use case scenarios but it seems like we could be could present it as a multi-tiered sort of market or go-to-market strategy be like go-to-market first with emergency departments because we have a validated use case there and some existing validated interest from sick kids because we've also presented this knowledge graph concept for potential forward prediction and it seemed to get some positive feedback from parties there. That was multiple doctors yeah.
Also, I should say a few things about the actual app. So, there's a couple of images, screenshots in this directory showing the app, but just verbally, what does it look like, how does it work? So, basically, users have the ability to generate graphs and subgraphs based on so-called like seed prompts, and these seed prompts could be symptoms or they could be tests or diagnoses, and the diagnostics basically dreams up. It basically speculatively, or using clinical guidelines as a basis, it speculatively generates a knowledge graph and then progressively audits this knowledge graph for validity and prunes the speculatively generated tree to get a high quality final output, and then it enriches this final validated tree using a bunch of datasets to improve the richness of its knowledge, and then it's saved and users can navigate all these generated knowledge graphs by either graphically, by scrolling around and zooming in and clicking on stuff and sort of looking at the details, and they can also filter, they can search for specific nodes to go zoom in on those subgraphs in the interface, and they can also filter to just see symptoms or just see symptoms and diagnoses, so they can filter by node type basically. They can also look at so-called pathways, which is just these basically these subgraphs in the overall presentation of the app, so you add a pathway when you start to generate a new subgraph basically, and so it zooms in on that subgraph and shows you just that zoomed in part, and then when they're looking at some subset of the overall nodes available in diagnostics, so it could be all of those graphs or it could be just one of the graphs, when you click the analyze button and on the left hand side, basically you get a chatbot, which so you can chat with like any other chatbot, and you can ask it questions, you can give it context, and it responds from the position or from the perspective of a clinical expert grounded in the knowledge graph that you're currently viewing, as well as in clinical guidelines coming from a rag pipeline we've built in the backend, so there's two sort of grounding sources, and the chatbot is the diagnostics chatbot is tuned to proactively reference these two grounding sources in order to keep it reliable, and then also to sort of encourage the user to use their do their own analysis. Yeah.
